Mark J. Terrill/Associated Press

The professional journeys of hundreds of young baseball players are about to begin, as three days and 40 rounds of the 2017 MLB draft start on Monday.

Rounds 1, 2 and Competitive Balance Rounds A and B will be Monday, starting at 7 p.m. ET. MLB Network will carry television coverage of the opening rounds, while a live stream of the event can be found at MLB.com. Rounds 3 through 10 will be Tuesday, while Rounds 11-40 will be on Wednesday, also with live streaming available at MLB.com.

The Minnesota Twins own the No. 1 overall pick in this year's draft. There are a number of different routes they could go with this pick, with two-way draft prospects like Hunter Greene and Louisville's Brendan McKay creating even more potential permutations for the Twins' future.

The last time the Twins held the top overall pick, they fared pretty well in 2001, selecting six-time All-Star catcher Joe Mauer.

Here's a look at the draft order for the first round and Competitive Balance Round A below. The full draft order be found at MLB.com.

2017 MLB Draft Order

Round 1

1. Minnesota Twins

2. Cincinnati Reds

3. San Diego Padres

4. Tampa Bay Rays

5. Atlanta Braves

6. Oakland Athletics

7. Arizona Diamondbacks

8. Philadelphia Phillies

9. Milwaukee Brewers

10. Los Angeles Angels

11. Chicago White Sox

12. Pittsburgh Pirates

13. Miami Marlins

14. Kansas City Royals

15. Houston Astros

16. New York Yankees

17. Seattle Mariners

18. Detroit Tigers

19. San Francisco Giants

20. New York Mets

21. Baltimore Orioles

22. Toronto Blue Jays

23. Los Angeles Dodgers

24. Boston Red Sox

25. Washington Nationals

26. Texas Rangers

27. Chicago Cubs

28. Toronto Blue Jays

29. Texas Rangers

30. Chicago Cubs

Competitive Balance Round A

31. Tampa Bay Rays

32. Cincinnati Reds

33. Oakland Athletics

34. Milwaukee Brewers

35. Minnesota Twins

36. Miami Marlins

Shakeup at the Top?

For at least a couple of weeks, mock drafts from all corners of the baseball world foresaw the Twins taking Vanderbilt right-handed starter Kyle Wright, but some late buzz suggests they are leaning toward another collegiate star in McKay, the left starter/first baseman plying his trade for the Cardinals.

Timothy D. Easley/Associated Press

MLB.com's Jim Callis said Monday that McKay is now the "presumptive favorite," but that prep shortstop/outfielder Royce Lewis was also in the mix.

Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan noted the same thing on Monday via Twitter:

With their positional flexibility, Lewis and McKay certainly give the Twins more options moving forward in terms of development, though it will certainly be difficult to pass up on a prototypical righty workhorse starter like Wright.

Assuming Greene hasn't now jumped into the mix at the top—a distinct possibility after a reportedly impressive workout at Target Field on Friday—the Cincinnati Reds will almost certainly pounce on him with the second pick. Greene, who plays at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California, is a two-way star, excelling as both a righty pitcher and shortstop.

His fastball can touch triple digits, he's a smooth fielder and can absolutely mash when in the batter's box. He also gets career advice from the likes of former Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodger great Don Newcombe, a right-handed hurler in his own right. Here's what he learned from Newcombe, per ESPN.com's Keith Law:

"I met with Don Newcombe, and his thing was, 'Sprint, man. Always run. Run as much as you can," Greene says. "Training like an athlete, like a sprinter, that's one of the biggest things ... [to] be able to go on the mound and have that explosion. My windup is pretty quick and easy because of the training that I do with explosive work, footwork, agility, plyometrics, all that stuff."

Greene's easy-going demeanor and potential at multiple positions make him one of the most highly touted prospects in recent years.

The Twins understandably might want some more polish from their first-round pick and will select either Wright or McKay, but Greene already has the poise and skill of a potential world-beater. For the Twins, it's not easy being at the top with so many great prospects to choose from; their task is to make sure that no matter what, they aren't left wondering what might've been.
<|endoftext|>
